Parliamentary elections were held in Slovenia on 24 April 2022 to elect all members of the National Assembly.
The ruling Slovenian Democratic Party, led by prime minister Janez Janša, conceded and was defeated by Robert Golob and his Freedom Movement. New Slovenia placed third, and was followed by the Social Democrats and The Left, both of which suffered some losses. The List of Marjan Šarec and the Party of Alenka Bratušek fell below the 4% electoral threshold and won no seats. Turnout stood at 69%, a substantial increase compared to previous two elections (52.63% in 2018 and 51.71% in 2014).

The Prime Minister of Montenegro officially the president of the Government of Montenegro, is the head of the government of Montenegro. The role of the prime minister is to direct the work of the government, and to submit to the Parliament the government's program, which includes a list of proposed ministers. The resignation of the prime minister would cause the dissolution of his government.
The current prime minister, Dritan Abazović, a leader of civic political party United Reform Action, was elected by the Parliament of Montenegro. He was elected on April 28, 2022, after the formation of the 43rd Government of Montenegro in Cetinje.

Gladiator is a 2000 epic historical drama film directed by Ridley Scott and written by David Franzoni, John Logan, and William Nicholson. The film was co-produced and released by DreamWorks Pictures and Universal Pictures. DreamWorks Pictures distributed the film in North America while Universal Pictures released it internationally through United International Pictures. It stars Russell Crowe, Joaquin Phoenix, Connie Nielsen, Ralf Möller, Oliver Reed (in his final role), Djimon Hounsou, Derek Jacobi, John Shrapnel, Richard Harris, and Tommy Flanagan. Crowe portrays Roman general Maximus Decimus Meridius, who is betrayed when Commodus, the ambitious son of Emperor Marcus Aurelius, murders his father and seizes the throne. Reduced to slavery, Maximus becomes a gladiator and rises through the ranks of the arena to avenge the murders of his family and his emperor.
